# Soil-Moisture-Prediction-Using-machine-Learning-algorithms
The amount of water in the soil is one of the most important factors affecting crop growth. The amount of water that is available to plants is determined by the soil moisture. The ability to predict soil moisture is a critical component of many agricultural and environmental processes, such as crop and forest growth, soil erosion, and flooding. Soil moisture is one of the most important soil quality factors for plant growth and development. This article describes how a process known as soil moisture prediction is used to understand how soil moisture will be distributed in the future. This article also describes how soil moisture is measured, and how that information is used to predict soil moisture in the future. Three datasets  gives the best idea about the individual data attributed and  Metrics which primary keys to the dataset execution and to explore the use of machine learning algorithms to improve the prediction accuracy of image analytics on the use of machine learning algorithms. For few Machine learning even with train and train of the dataset there won’t accuracy values. In this step, I decided to model the five different algorithms which are XGBOOST has prediction values of 95%, LINEAR REGRESSION has prediction values of 50%, RANDOM FOREST has prediction values of 98%, K-NEIGHBOUR has prediction values of 90 %, DECISION TREE has prediction values of  81 % and After the prediction of each algorithm, each algorithms gives the accuracy values and prediction values. Futhermore into prediciton is the hyper parameter tuning for the best two algorithms will take place and that will gives the best accuracy for the dataset. Hyperparameter Tuning of XGBoost Classifier using GridSearchCV and Hyperparameter Tuning of Random Forest Regressor using RandomisedSearchCV are highest predicted values of 95% and 94 % accuracy values . so Random forest and Extreme gradient boosting has best accuracy value in this dataset.
